I'm Bob Harris of decorative concrete
Institute welcome to concrete networks
floor me series if you've made the
decision to cover over the top of your
wood floors with a new concrete floor
make sure you ask your contractor if
they have previous experience with this
type of an application going over wood
is substantially different than going
over a pre-existing concrete floor and
there are several measures that you need
to take into account wind going over
wood on wood floors they typically
require more rigidity and there are
several measures that you can take to
stabilize the floor for an overlay we've
had good success screwing down 3/4 inch
plywood to the subfloor and then
attaching galvanized metal lap as a
reinforcing material this is the
galvanized metal lath that will go ahead
and screw it down maybe on six inch
centers to lock it down to the floor and
then of course your overlay material
encapsulate sin to the lap and provide
some structural rigidity and reinforcing
you can also cover the floor with
roofing paper first and then staple the
metal lath through the roofing paper
into the subfloor and that's almost that
we consider that a slip sheet make sure
the product the overlay product you use
is suitable for going over wood some
manufacturers start strongly warned
against applying their products over
wood sub floors while others say it's
okay bottom line is read the technical
data sheets and find out what they
recommend for wood flooring applications
there are several products available on
the market that contractors have had
very good success using such as this
anti fracture membrane now this is a
material that requires a an adhesive to
be applied to the wood and then you have
this peel back paper and this material
this anti fracture membrane gets
embedded into the mastic material and on
this side it has a mess you're going to
always overlap your sheets and this is a
great way that you can address wood
floors
also if soundproofing or water proofing
is a concern you can get this
type of material that's designed to
waterproof while providing some sound
barrier in preparation for your concrete
overlay if you are going to waterproof
using a membrane material like this we
do recommend going over the top of this
with our expanded metal laughs and if
you do that certainly you're going to
puncture through your membrane material
and so what we'll do is we'll take the
screw and just apply it into some latex
and then screw it in so as the screw
goes down into your subfloor it in facts
water proof sat at the same time
remember do your homework there are
plenty of concrete flooring
possibilities to choose from that will
meet your individual needs be sure to
check out all of the for me videos at
concrete network.com Bob Harris thanks
for watching